Marogar Orcs (blue skinned, ice feasible orcs) They thrive under the corruption and freezing of the Lost Loreldians, are usually hostile and have their own language. Quite a few have proven their friendliness to other races though.

Shadahar Orcs (yellow skinned, lightning feasible orcs) They do not have their own language, and are united under the sanctioned power of the Demigod Shadahar. Fate has it said that he infused his essence with a lost loreldian to become a living deity for the Shadahar Orcs, dominating the Aluhundara Desert with Lightning Elementals and the so forth. These Shadahar Orcs are more intelligently inclined to learn other races languages, than their other orcish counterparts.

Felewyn Elves (most generically seen, and referred to as "High Elves") Tan elves with irresistibly reflective skin. The most literal generic elf you will see. They are considered the 'de facto' master race in Master Sword lore, in terms of being wizards, rogues, spellswords, and cunning in their intelligence for businessmen/women. However they are quite impacted by their health and constitution in exchange for a longer lifespan. They can live up to 700 years. Elven Kingdoms are known for withstanding more than Human Kingdoms, simply due to royalty being able to outlive their lesser races. The current kingdom is Kray Eldorad.

Torkalath Elves (seen, but are mostly seen in Melanion; the ancient elven city of the Torkalath peoples in the war of fate.) They are compared to DnD's Drow, but are considered tolerable on the surface unlike the Drow in the Underdark for NWN. Most turn to sorcery, evil necromancy, while some can be good and be your next door neighbor. They are dark-purple skinned. They can live up to greater heights than the Felewyn Elves, naturally inclined, and susceptible through the arts of chaos magic and necromancy. Some has been fabled to live long enough to witness the war of fate.

Half-Elf (this can be included for Torkalath Elves, and Felewyn Elves as well, and Loreldians. But no Loreldians exist in this era that will be active on the server, or will there be? hmm ;) ) Half-Elves carry the ambition and curiosity of their human parent, while they take the intelligence, half the lifespan, love for plants, and cunning of their elven parent. They are most commonly seen in Eswen Sylen instead of Kray Eldorad. Humans have been seen to live in harmony here as well with them in Eswen Sylen. They can vary from tan skinned, dark skinned, to a very dark shade of cyan (extent of the dark-purple for immersion)

Generic Orc (your generic, green skinned orc) They do have their own language, and are quite impacted by low intelligence if they are to speak in any others. They often do not become wizards, but are seen to be shamans and awfully good sorcerers.

Loreldian (never seen, at least in the mortal plane of Leahh.. but one day they may show themselves, but likely never.) Loreldians have their own languages, for which their books are scattered in plantears across the lands, in ancient dusty archives with skeletal guardians to protect the phrasebooks to fall in mortal hands, along with their artefacts. (MSC Vets, think of Orc_for on MSC, with the skeletal tower) .. Loreldians are known for having infinite depths of intelligence and willpower, becoming a force to be reckoned with in terms of wizards in the arcane magics. It is known that they are capable of weaving fate by will and will alone, thus many transcend to becoming gods anyway, joining the Lost. ["Higher Higher Elves", who reached mortal transcendence]

Dwarves (seen on the surface, VERY much seen in underkeep and underground fortresses) Dwarves have their own language, and are amazing blacksmiths. They operate in the depths of Leahh in hopes of escaping the Kharaztorant Cult, and to harness the power of the planet's magma to create wonderful creations, such as battle mechs and so forth.

Halflings (otherly known as Gnomes, Hin) Do not have their own language, but are worthy travel companions, they live in the very woods of Eswen Mallan; their illustrious kingdom. Southwest of The Urdulian Temple of Edana.

Humans - humans are the most generically adaptable race to any outcome on Leahh, and are usually the most versatile picked for any build possible. They form and grow splinter guilds, cities, and governments across the lands.. usually very adaptive with their curiosity to meet lesser races and unify them in their cities and ranks. (Hence Deralia will have elves and creatures of most types, except for Shadahar and Marogar Orcs)

Loreldian Half-Elves - These special types of Half-Elves were Loreldians that lingered behind as soon as mortals were created, and likely were too attached to their mortal counterparts, and bred with them. This nullified their abilities to transcend with the rest of the Loreldians prior and after the war of fate, thus leaving them behind on Leahh with the horrors that trouble Mortals in every day to day life. They are not as strong as their previous Loreldian Kin, but are treated as religious descendants of the Loreldian Gods, although the three governing the force of Leahh and it's Elemental Planes, never had offspring with mortals. They are magically inclined, and it would be a devastating waste of talent to cast such inclination aside. These Loreldian Half-Elves are known as the best wild mages to roam the lands, scribes of scrolls, and language archivists.(MSC Veteran Only, but can be gained through 5% reroll chance, or contacting DMs)

Undead [anything] - revived by power of evil will, and will alone without Divine Magic, these are usually hostile and slow to speech.. although some throughout history have been revered to be normal and good-willed; until slaughtered before they could even finish a syllable; so they turn to fighting as a hostile usually. They are seen more further north where they are tolerated or accepted along with necromancers, or willfully piled into Necromancer Armies for repurpose, forged with the will of the Lost Loreldians and their ferocious ice caps that spread over Shender's Mountain and Volcano.

Vampire [anything] - (DM Specified Only) Vampires are sun and light hating mortals who thrive in darkness and the underworld, usually giving a pester to the Dwarves, but are usually accommodated by bands of vampiric bat followers and will probably have your blood as their next supper. Some have been known to be accepted into civilization, such as a count of Deralia once.. but it is very hard to accomplish though. They are known to wither, crack, peel, and bleed when the sun touches their skin. Delightful.