The Spellweavers Guild:

The Guild of Spellweavers, otherly known as "Wizard-Lord Defenders of Leahh" -- are the very tamers and masters of the Elements and their meddling in the mortal plane.

=============

From: universe.txt

The Elemental Planes:
Carnaan, The Plane of Fire.
Odriz, The Plane of Water.
Hnshasa, The Plane of Air.
Mughedd, The Plane of Earth.

The Abyss, a 'neutral ground' for departed souls.. as Lanethan once mentioned.
The Soul-Well -  for where your soul goes if you are truly deceased.
The Reach - a 'rather pleasant place', comparable to the term 'heaven' in the human and dwarf languages and interpretations.
The Harness - a 'rather nasty place', comparable to the term 'hell' in the human and dwarf languages and interpretations.

=============

The Spellweaver Spire was constructed by Urdual in an attempt of entrusting mortal beings in bringing balance, fighting corporeal wars with elemental forces, and attempting to keep the foreign influence of elemental forces out of mortal control from Leahh the best way possible.
These would include, elementals, greater elementals, fire wyverns and ice birds.. things of the such, they are also the cause of concern for dealing with The Lost and it's corruption onto mortals within the Mortal Plane, using vassals such as Ice Creatures, Firey Mobs, and the like.
In most encounters dealing with the Spellweaver's Guilds most ferocious and stoic wizard-lords would be the reported sightings or tracking of Greater Elementals, of any type.. wizards would be there to battle them, especially on the surface.

Throughout the lands, were placed ancient warp pads.. that granted access to The Spellweaver Spire. The Spellweaver Spire is the name chosen by mortals, but in Loreldian's words.. it was marked as in their historic language translated, "The Eye in the Storm". Around these warp pads would form massive guild fortresses, offering their public services and protection of said warp pads.
The Spellweaver's Guild is directly responsible for allowing spellswords and mages on Leahh, the very existance of a fire spell burning in your hand.. and yet not harming yourself, and the ability to use these in such a controlled manner. With this power, also came great responsibilities - Wizard Lords from the Guild are tasked with being overly-active, with restless nights.. to defend and seek out elemental forces and stopping them from invading Leahh.
Very often, these Wizards would travel between the spire and leahh in it's total defense, but would also travel between all of the Elemental Planes, to concentrate.. survey, and protect these planes.. for which mortals harness the energy in the most clean and proficient manner. It is noteworthy to mention not all wizards or members of this large-faring and very populated guild, could have access to the spire out of the guild's best interests. However, this does not mean they could not visit for important missions, such as defenses and the like. Very few Wizard-Lords are allowed to remain on the spire, usually being scholars and scroll-writers, and those tasked with the honor of defending the spire from elemental onslaught.

The Spellweavers Guild was not formed recently, it was formed during the Age of Guilds .. for which allows dues and certain writs and control on fellow mortals. Enforcing strong standards and responsibilities, and keeping a close hand and watch on mortals to prevent them from being too powerful. This Guild is not a force to be reckoned with, and always deals in a proficient and powerful manner. If anyone is to report anything to them, of out-of-ordinary encounters, that being Greater Elementals and the like, better not be lying for their sake. This guild is formed on top of a council of wizards, for who also operate courts to trial powerful wizards in the past for attempting to jeapordize their values, their laws, and regulations. Most trials in times past were powerful Necromancers, Followers of the Lost with immense power, attempted sabotage - arsonists, and the so forth.